---
Id: 1005
Title: Overcoming Hurdles
Author: Alexander Sitzman
Tags: Opinion Anecdote Story
Topic: Goals
Abstract: Discover how reframing setbacks as opportunities for growth can empower you to overcome life's hurdles with resilience and determination.
HeaderImage: /BL-1005/Designer-7.png
isPublished: true
---

## Introduction

Today, I set out for a run, intending to follow my usual route to the top of a local hill. But as I reached the peak, something pushed me to go further, leading me down the other side and extending my run. Lately, my running routine has become sporadic, and I’ve found comfort in sticking to familiar paths. Running gives me time to think, and there’s something reassuring about knowing the landmarks and goalposts ahead.

But during my fourth mile, as I made my way back up the hill, I found myself short of breath. I slowed to a walk before reaching the goalpost I had set for myself. Normally, I push through, determined to meet the goals I set on my runs. This time, though, I had to stop and collect myself. I felt my breath, my heartbeat, and a slight sense of disappointment. But as I reflected, I realized this moment wasn’t about weakness. It was about growth. I decided to reframe the situation: “I will hit my next goal,” I told myself, setting my sights on a new target two cross streets ahead.


## Everyday Hurdles

Recently, I’ve noticed a similar challenge in my daily life—a sense of lethargy, a lack of inspiration to learn and improve as I usually do. It would be easy to blame my so-far unsuccessful job search for these feelings, but deep down, I know the real issue: I’m at a hurdle. Just like in running, my life is defined by milestones and goals—both short-term and long-term, both conscious and unconscious. When we fall short, it’s easy to see it as failure.

I had hoped to have a job lined up by now, and when that didn’t happen, I felt like I had failed. But in truth, it was an opportunity to reassess and take a different approach. I found some online certification courses in fields I’m exploring, and as I registered and began studying, I felt my drive return. I may not have a job yet, but I’m preparing for the moment when I do.

## Conquering Your Hurdles

It’s important to see hardships as more than failures. Each challenge is a chance to reevaluate yourself and your plan. By viewing these moments through the lens of growth, you can transform your mindset and, in turn, improve yourself. The road to success isn’t always smooth, and setbacks are inevitable. However, it’s how you respond to these setbacks that defines your path forward. Embrace each hurdle as an opportunity to learn, adapt, and come back stronger. Remember, progress isn’t measured by the absence of obstacles, but by your ability to overcome them. With the right mindset, no hurdle is too high to conquer.
